SKIPPED: [256 chars] your fresh ricotta is very wet, you'll need to drain it before using. line a colander with a double layer of cheesecloth and set it over a small bowl. place the ricotta inside, cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate overnight. discard the drained liquid.
SKIPPED: [395 chars] info: kaffir lime leaves are leaves of the kaffir lime tree. they are sold frozen and sometimes fresh at asian markets. if unavailable, use 1 tablespoon fresh lime juice and 1/2 teaspoon grated lime peel for each lime leaf. canned unsweetened coconut milk, fish sauce, and panko are available in the asian foods section of most supermarkets, at some specialty foods stores, and at asian markets.
SKIPPED: [395 chars] a spice made from the resin of the giant fennel (ferula), has a strong, disagreeable smell from sulfur compounds, so a little goes a long way. its flavor after cooking is like the mildest, mellowest garlic you've ever tasted. asafetida is sold in lump and ground form and is available at indian and middle eastern markets or kalustyans.com. if unavailable, garlic powder makes a good substitute.
SKIPPED: [290 chars] often see veal shanks cut crosswise into osso buco, but around the holidays, we like to braise them whole for a dramatic presentation. call in advance so the butcher sets aside the entire pieces for you. there's no need to have them trimmed; the meat will shrink on the bones as it braises.
SKIPPED: [348 chars] tip: hardwood lump charcoal is made from pure wood (with no additives or fillers). as the name suggests, this type of charcoal comes in irregularly shaped lumps, unlike the uniformly shaped charcoal briquettes. look for hardwood lump charcoal at natural foods stores, grill shops, and online at sites such as kindlin.com and wickedgoodcharcoal.com.
SKIPPED: [259 chars] thick yogurt; sold at some supermarkets and at specialty foods stores (such as trader joe's and whole foods markets) and greek markets. if unavailable, place regular yogurt in cheesecloth-lined strainer set over large bowl. cover and chill overnight to drain.
SKIPPED: [302 chars] paprika is available at most supermarkets. pimentón de la vera is a sweet red chile grown in the la vera valley of western spain, and slowly smoke-dried before being ground into a powder. it's available at specialty food stores and online at latienda.com. hungarian smoked paprika is a good substitute.
SKIPPED: [337 chars] equipment: a 1- to 2-gallon plastic storage tub; a 22 1/2-inch kettle grill with a lid and a hinged top rack; a 12- by 8- by 2-inch disposable aluminum roasting pan; 6 cups hardwood sawdust (3/4 lb; not from treated wood; see shopping list, page 162); charcoal briquettes; a chimney starter; long metal tongs; an instant-read thermometer
SKIPPED: [308 chars] equipment: a 1- to 2-gallon plastic storage tub; a 22 1/2-inch kettle grill with a lid and a hinged top rack; a 12- by 8- by 2-inch disposable aluminum roasting pan; 6 cups hardwood sawdust (3/4 lb; not from treated wood); charcoal briquettes; a chimney starter; long metal tongs; an instant-read thermometer
SKIPPED: [306 chars] soy sauce, also known as white shoyu, is lighter in color and flavor than standard soy sauce. it can be purchased at asian markets and from amazon.com. marcona almonds are spanish almonds that are usually sold roasted and salted. find them at specialty foods stores, natural foods stores, and latienda.com.
SKIPPED: [271 chars] info: tasso is an intensely flavored cajun-style smoked meat. it's available at some supermarkets and specialty foods stores. fresh poblano chiles (often called pasillas) are sold at some supermarkets and specialty foods stores, at farmers' markets, and at latin markets.
SKIPPED: [370 chars] bowls, put out diced pineapple, mango, watermelon, kiwi, lemon, lime, orange, and grapefruit; raspberries, blueberries, and diced strawberries; mint and basil. arrange spiced syrups (citrus spice syrup, <epi:recipelink id="234832">ginger spice syrup</epi:recipelink> ), sparkling water, crushed ice, measuring spoons, muddlers, vodka, gin, rum, and tequila on the table.
SKIPPED: [461 chars] turkey frying kit (30-quart or larger aluminum pot; propane burner with a hose that connects to a propane tank and a gauge for regulating the flame; poultry rack with a hook for lowering and raising the turkey in the pot; 12-inch deep-fry thermometer that clips to the side of the pot to monitor the oil temperature); a full propane gas tank; a waterproof marker; an apron; long heavy-duty oven mitts; an instant-read thermometer; fire extinguisher—just in case
SKIPPED: [273 chars] used the soft, chocolaty honey porter made by samuel adams (available nationwide); but regional porters on the order of vermont's catamount or oregon's deschutes black butte exhibit the same qualities. whatever you choose, avoid bitter, hoppy porters such as sierra nevada.
SKIPPED: [264 chars] heavy-bottomed 3-quart saucepan or deep sauté pan, about 10-inch diameter; a stiff wire whisk; a rimmed baking sheet, 9 by 13 inches (a quarter-sheet), or a shallow baking pan of the same size, bottom and sides lightly brushed with olive oil; a stiff metal spatula
SKIPPED: [296 chars] equipment: 12-inch-wide heavy-duty aluminum foil; a 22 1/2-inch kettle grill with a hinged top rack (if using charcoal); a large chimney starter (if using charcoal); long metal tongs; a 17- by 12 1/2- by 3 1/2-inch disposable aluminum roasting pan (if using charcoal); an instant-read thermometer
SKIPPED: [276 chars] is sold at some supermarkets and at natural foods stores and italian markets. if unavailable, substitute an equal amount of regular yellow cornmeal and cook about half as long. mascarpone is an italian cream cheese that's available at many supermarkets and at italian markets.
SKIPPED: [295 chars] equipment: a deep 10- to 20-quart pot (such as a stockpot, lobster pot, or canning pot); a wide 7-quart heavy ovenproof pot (if you have an 11-pound ham) or a wide 9- to 10-quart heavy ovenproof pot (if you have a 13-pound ham); an instant-read thermometer (preferably remote digital with probe)
SKIPPED: [278 chars] rib-eye roast comes from the same area as the standing rib roast, but it's a more manageable size (and cooks more evenly). it has all the fat—a.k.a. flavor—of prime rib. ask your butcher for the bones and roast them with the meat: then you can decide who's been naughty or nice.
SKIPPED: [342 chars] info: mirin is sold in the asian foods section of some supermarkets and at japanese markets. kochujang is a spicy red paste made with pureed fermented soybeans (miso) and hot chiles. it's available at korean markets and online from koamart.com. if you can't find kochujang, substitute 1/3 cup miso mixed with 2 tablespoons sriracha hot sauce.
SKIPPED: [600 chars] will need a shovel, a broom, a large canvas tarp that is at least 8 x 6 feet, a couple of big buckets, a few pairs of tongs, two pairs of gloves to protect hands from the steam, a pot to melt butter, a ladle, cheesecloth for wrapping the small food items (such as steamers and periwinkles), twine for tying the cheesecloth bundles and platters for the cooked food. a picnic table is terrific for serving the platters of food but is not absolutely necessary. you will also need plates, cups, bowls for melted butter, eating utensils, lobster crackers, plenty of napkins and several large garbage bags.
SKIPPED: [297 chars] equipment: a 1- to 2-gallon plastic storage tub or stainless-steel bowl; a 22 1/2-inch covered kettle grill with a hinged top rack; a 12- by 8- by 2-inch disposable aluminum roasting pan; 3 lb hardwood sawdust*; charcoal briquettes; a chimney starter; long metal tongs; an instant-read thermometer
SKIPPED: [464 chars] taste in food is pretty simple," writes sara hainsworth of frederick, maryland. "i’m a meat-and-potatoes — and chocolate — kind of person. my husband, greg, and i cook together a lot, which is fun and makes weeknight dinners and cooking for friends easier to manage now that we’re starting our own family. i worked before our son, william, was born, but as my husband says, william is my boss now. so i count on these quick, dependably good dishes more than ever."
SKIPPED: [294 chars] equipment: 1- to 2-gallon plastic storage tub or stainless-steel bowl; a 221/2-inch covered kettle grill with a hinged top rack; a 12- by 8- by 2-inch disposable aluminum roasting pan; 3 lb hardwood sawdust*; charcoal briquettes; a chimney starter; long metal tongs; an instant-read thermometer
SKIPPED: [373 chars] cups any combination of fresh berries, picked over, washed, hulled, if necessary, and drained until dry, and/or cut-up peeled fresh fruit, divided (1 1/2 cups and 2 1/2 cups), (note: try blueberries and peaches, or raspberries and nectarines, or blueberries and strawberries, or plums and peaches with marionberries or huckleberries; do not peel plums, nectarines or pears)
SKIPPED: [449 chars] fat is a weblike membrane of fatty material that encases the organs of some animals, including pigs, sheep, and cows. when wrapped around meat or fish, it adds flavor, moisture, and fat, and basically melts into the meat or fish as it cooks. some butchers and specialty markets carry caul fat, but you may need to ask your butcher or supermarket meat counter to order it. if you can't find caul fat, try wrapping the halibut in thin strips of bacon.
SKIPPED: [277 chars] info: fresh porcini mushrooms are available in the fall and spring at some farmers' markets and online from oregonmushrooms.com. if you're at the market, ask the purveyor to cut the mushrooms in half so that you can look at the stem. it should be white, without any tiny holes.
SKIPPED: [274 chars] spice comes in 3 strengths — sweet (which are used in this recipe), bittersweet and hot. three mail-order sources that we've found are the spanish table (tel. 206-682-2827; email tablespan@aol.com), la tienda (web site: www.tienda.com/) and dean & deluca (tel. 800-221-7714)
SKIPPED: [307 chars] heavy-duty rimmed baking sheet, a.k.a. half sheet pan or jelly roll pan (12x17 inches), is ideal for roasting the chicken thighs and lots of other foods. the low rim allows for efficient roasting, and this sturdy pan won't buckle at high heat.try chicago metallic's large jelly roll pan ($16 at target.com).
SKIPPED: [304 chars] electric mixer, beat 3 1/4 cups powdered sugar and egg whites until thick and shiny, adding more powdered sugar by tablespoonfuls if mixture is too thin to spread, about 3 minutes. add lemon juice. divide icing into portions, if desired, and add different food coloring to each. cover until ready to use.
SKIPPED: [283 chars] info: tuscan kale, also called black kale, dinosaur kale, lacinato kale, or cavolo nero, has long, narrow, dark green bumpy leaves; find it at farmers' markets and some supermarkets. dried chiles de árbol are available at latin markets, specialty foods stores, and some supermarkets.
SKIPPED: [337 chars] info: smoked paprika is available at some supermarkets, at specialty foods stores, and from latienda.com. smoked spanish chorizo is a pork-link sausage flavored with garlic and spices. it's available at specialty foods stores and spanish markets and from latienda.com. look for manchego cheese at supermarkets and specialty foods stores.
SKIPPED: [285 chars] info: harissa powder is a spice blend sold at middle eastern markets and at wholespice.com. if unavailable, combine 2 teaspoons ground coriander; 1 1/2 teaspoons ground ancho chiles; 1 teaspoon each garlic powder, paprika, and cumin; 1/2 teaspoon salt; and 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper.
SKIPPED: [330 chars] info: suet and bone marrow are sold at some upscale supermarkets. to make sure your market carries both, be sure to call ahead. you may need to special-order the items. red miso (sometimes labeled aka miso) can be found in the refrigerated asian foods section of some supermarkets and at natural foods stores and japanese markets.
SKIPPED: [266 chars] info: greek-style yogurt is sold at some supermarkets and at specialty foods stores (such as trader joe's and whole foods markets) and greek markets. tahini (sesame seed paste) is available at some supermarkets and at natural foods stores and middle eastern markets.
SKIPPED: [278 chars] at some supermarkets. if unavailable, heat 1 cup whipping cream to lukewarm (85°f.). remove from heat; mix in 2 tablespoons buttermilk. cover; let stand in warm draft-free area until slightly thickened, 24 to 48 hours, depending on temperature of room. chill until ready to use.
SKIPPED: [291 chars] make ginger juice, peel a 3-ounce piece of ginger and grate it over a plate. wrap in cheesecloth; twist at both ends to squeeze out the juice. or put the grated ginger in a finemesh sieve and press to release the juices. in a pinch, bottled ginger juice is available at natural foods stores.
SKIPPED: [287 chars] large peaches, apples, or pears (we like anjou), pitted or cored and cut into chunks. pears and apples should be peeled, but the peaches don't have to be. (note: if you're using out-of-season fruit—which is often less flavorful—feel free to toss in an extra one to coax out more flavor.)
